# TREFLOYNE
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/0GKD1YEHXu8
#### Description: I have created a web application to help me keep track of my golf statistics when playing at my local course. It was fairly easy to decide to attempt creating this as I play copious amounts of golf, with a keen interest on keeping my stats from each round. My web app uses python with the Django framework, with help from various other sources such as bootstrap, crispyforms and plotly. The idea was that after a round of golf, I would be able enter certain data from my round into the web app, and it would keep a track of these, displaying these statistics to see if there were any areas of my golf game that might need improving more than others. Originally I intended to keep this project for my own personal use only, however, after mentioning it to some friends of mine with whom I play golf, it was pretty clear that they would also like to be able to use it. This meant adding user registration and login/logout functionality. I created this project on my own personal version of Visual Studio Code, and made regular pushes to GitHub so that I could learn this at the same time.

#### Description: Django auto-generates a project folder and sub-folders with certain app-specific files and settings, and database configuration. The project root directory contains numerous folders, one automatically created is called 'Trefloyne' which is the name of my application, within this folder is the file 'settings.py' which contains all of the settings which link throughout my project, some of these settings have been updated throughout development. 'urls.py' defines the list of URL routes within the app, the other files in this folder are auto-generated and are uneditted by myself. Some files are loose within the root directory, the auto-generated database 'db.sqlite3' is where all of the user data is stored, including user info and data from the submitted round entries. The 'requirements.txt' file contains a list of neccessary downloads should someone wish to run my application, this list was regularly updated. 'manage.py' offers command-line utility to complete administrator tasks and points towards the 'settings.py' file. There is a file titled '.env' which I created after adding email functionality to the web app. New users will be emailed a welcome email, to do this I had to add my email credentials into the 'settings.py' file which is in plain text. Alternatively, I created the '.env' file to store the credentials and linked to this file, this keeps the sensitive information more secure. '.gitignore' contains a list of the files and documents within the project that are to be ignored when sending the files to my GitHub repository. 

#### Description: The folder where most of my programming has been done is titled 'stats', this includes 'urls.py' which simply defines the path to each html page within the webapp. 'models.py' defines what will be entered and stored in the database when the user submits a form, I created one model for each round submitted, and one model for each hole in the round. These were linked together using a ForiegnKey. I had to decide which fields to add to my models, and they were updated occassionally to encorporate new ideas. Originally for the RoundModel I had date, tees, score, fairway, green, putts as the fields, this ended up also including course name, 18 or 9 holes, front or back 9 holes, and user. This allowed for greater functionality and increased the overall statistics that could be generated. Possibly the most important file is 'views.py', here I have defined each function related to a URL. What happens when each page is visited and forms submitted can be seen here, for example the login and register functions, as well as the main index page. Numerous libraries are in use on this page, and each form and model from the app is imported to be used within the views. The 'forms.py' file contains the forms that are rendered within the webpages which are cross-referenced with 'models.py' to autogenerate certain fields and handle the user input. Validation methods have been added such as formatting, and specifications to what type of input for each field. These forms are important in being able to save the correct data into the database. The other files loose in this folder are auto-generated but not used.

#### Description: Also within the 'Trefloyne' folder are some other subfolders, the 'migrations' subfolder contains the files that document the changes that have been made to the 'models.py' file. When these changes are made, the migration files are generated and updates the 'db.sqlite3', this keeps the schema of the database up to date. There are 8 of these files with the folder, all describing the changes to the models. The next subfolder is 'static', this contains further subfolders containing the files that detail all of the styling within the app. I have utilised the bootstrap framework, the downloadeded bootstrap js file can be found here. There are 2 favicon images which are in 16x16 or 32x32 pixel size. This image has been downloaded from a 3rd party website, I have linked to this website in my footer at their request. There are some other .css files which contain some custom css additions that I have created. I have generally used bootstrap throughout, but any changes to the css have been added here.

#### Description: The final subfolder in 'stats' is 'templates', this is an important folder which contains all of the html files of the project. The 'layout.html' file contain the html code that defines the main structure and layout of each webpage, this file is then extended to all of the other html pages. The layout page links to the css and favicon files used throughout, renders the navbar, messages, headings and contents. 'index.html' is the main page that users will see when logged in, the content generated on this page is based on the data passed from the 'views.py' file, namely the graphs of the user's statistics. It's also possible to submit another form which dictates what statistics the user will see. 'login.html', 'register.html' and 'logout.html' contain the forms that are required in order for the user to successfully register, login, or logout. The other html files generate the content in all of the other webpages, the round entry pages contain forms that the users will fill out to extract the data of their golf rounds. These forms are created using crispy forms. Finally, 'about.html' is a simple page that contains some text to advise users on how to correctly use the web app.

#### Description: The '.venv' folder is the virtual environment the files specific to the project, these are the libraries and dependencies which are then isolated from other projects in my python environment. The executable files, installed libraries and header files are all here which keep the project consistent across different deployment environments. There is another folder titled 'node_modules', all of the downloaded js packages required for my project to run are contained within this folder. The bootstrap package that I installed is located here. There are so many subfolders and files located within this folder.

